README.md, before:

# FFEM  
FFEM stands for Face Feature Embedding Module.  
The Tensorflow version should be v2.4.0 or later for mixed precision training.  
The tensorflow-addons is needed for tfa.images.  

## Things You Should Know Before Training Your Model
It is difficult to train an embedding model with a triplet loss from scratch.  
It often fails to converge and results in f(x)=0, where f(x) is an embedding vector.  
To remedy this, there are a few options.  
```
1. Select triplet pair carefully with large mini-batch (>= 1800).
2. Pretrain an embedding model as a classifier with softmax-cross-entropy loss.
3. Try to train with other metric losses.
```
This project uses second option.  
Pretrain first and fine-tune the pretrained model with metric losses.  

## How to Make Your Dataset
You have image_list.json file with the format (json) as below.  
```
{
  "Asian/m.0hn95h9/000012_00@en.jpg": {
    "label": 0,
    "x1": 9,
    "y1": 13,
    "x2": 75,
    "y2": 100
  },
  "Asian/m.0hn95h9/000046_00@ja.jpg": {
    "label": 0,
    "x1": 7,
    "y1": 7,
    "x2": 43,
    "y2": 65
  },
  ...
}
```
The `key` is a relative path of a face image.   
The `value` of the key contains label number and bounding box that indicates exact face location.  
The bounding box [x1, y1, x2, y2] is [left, top, right, bottom] respectively.  
We generated the bounding box using [[11]](https://github.com/blaueck/tf-mtcnn).  

## Common Settings
Execute the command `export PYTHONPATH=$(pwd)` first.  
Set 'img_root_path' option to know where the images are located.  
Set 'train_file' option saved with the format as mentioned above.  
Set 'num_identity' option that is the number of face identities in the 'train_file'.  

## Recommendation Steps for Training.
1. Set 'train_classifier' to `True` and 'arc_margin_penalty' to `False`, then run `python train/main.py`.  
2. Set 'arc_margin_penalty' to `True`, then run `python train/main.py`.  
3. Set 'train_classifier' to `False`, then run `python train/main.py`.  

## Why Do I Have To Train With 3 Steps?
As mentioned above, because it is hard to converge using a triplet loss from scratch.  
A triplet training tends to collapse to f(x)=0, when you should not select hard-sample carefully.  
So, train L2-constrained softmax classifier with small face identities first from scratch.  
Then, finetune the trained L2-constrained model using arc margin penalty loss with large face identities.  
Lastly, finetune the trained arc margin penalty model using a triplet loss.  
Actually you don't have to do last step.  
You can use the arc margin penalty model to make face recognition application.  
But if you don't have GPUs with large memory, you only train with small face identities becuase of memory limitation.  
A triplet training does not depends on the number of face identities.  
It only compares embedding distances between examples, so you can save gpu memory and allocate more batch-size.  
Also the first step is needed because of convergence issues on arc margin panlty.  
It is alleviated by pretraining an initial model with softmax.  
On top of that, training the classifier with small(<=2000) face identities is sufficient to get good initialization for arc margin model.  

## Training Conditions
```
1. Train MobiletNetV3 architecture from scratch as details below:
 - L2-constrained softmax with 30 scale factor
 - ReLU6 activation (Default in this repository)
 - ADAM optimizer with 1e-4 learning rate
 - 50 epochs
 - VGGFACE2 dataset with 2K identities

2. Train the above pretrained model as details below:
 - additive angular margin loss, 0.5 margin and 60 scale factor
 - SGD momentum nesterov optimizer with 1e-3 learning rate
 - 10~15 epochs
 - trillion pairs dataset with large identities
```

## TODO LIST
Do ablation strudy for stable learning on large face identity.  

- [ ] *Known as `Center Loss`*, A Discriminative Feature Learning Approach for Deep Face Recognition, Y. Wen et al., ECCV 2016
- [x] *Known as `L2 Softmax`*, L2-constrained Softmax Loss for Discriminative Face Verification, R. Ranjan et al., arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.09507 2017
- [ ] *Known as `Proxy-NCA`*, No Fuss Distance Metric Learning using Proxies, Y. Movshovitz-Attias et al., ICCV 2017
- [ ] Correcting the Triplet Selection Bias for Triplet Loss, B. Yu et al., ECCV 2018
- [x] Global Norm-Aware Pooling for Pose-Robust Face Recognition at Low False Positive Rate, S. Chen et al., arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.00435 2018
- [ ] The Devil of Face Recognition is in the Noise, F. Wang et al., ECCV 2018
- [ ] Co-Mining: Deep Face Recognition with Noisy Labels, X. Wang et al., ICCV 2019
- [ ] SoftTriple Loss: Deep Metric Learning Without Triplet Sampling, Q. Qian et al., ICCV 2019
- [ ] *Known as `Proxy-Anchor`*, Proxy Anchor Loss for Deep Metric Learning, S. Kim et al., CVPR 2020
- [ ] Relational Deep Feature Learning for Heterogeneous Face Recognition, M. Cho et al., IEEE 2020

## References
1. [FaceNet](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1503.03832.pdf)
2. [Deep Face Recognition, VGGFACE](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/publications/2015/Parkhi15/parkhi15.pdf)
3. [RFW Face Dataset](http://www.whdeng.cn/RFW/index.html)
4. [Trillion Pairs](http://trillionpairs.deepglint.com/overview)
5. https://github.com/davidsandberg/facenet/
6. https://github.com/omoindrot/tensorflow-triplet-loss
7. https://www.wouterbulten.nl/blog/tech/data-augmentation-using-tensorflow-data-dataset
8. https://github.com/peteryuX/arcface-tf2
9. [Sharing problems I encountered training Arcface models](https://www.kaggle.com/c/recursion-cellular-image-classification/discussion/109987)
10. [Help needed: ArcFace in Keras](https://www.reddit.com/r/deeplearning/comments/cg1kev/help_needed_arcface_in_keras)
11. https://github.com/blaueck/tf-mtcnn
12. [Global Norm-Aware Pooling for Pose-Robust Face Recognition at Low False Positive Rate](https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1808/1808.00435.pdf)

Commit message:

Update input pipeline
 - Training file should be TFRECORD instead of json format.

Metric learning loss, like triplet, will be transferred to another proejct.
This project only considers arcface loss or its variants.
The metric learning project is https://github.com/shi510/dml-tf.

README.md, after:

# FFEM  
FFEM stands for Face Feature Embedding Module.  
The Tensorflow version should be v2.4.0 or later for mixed precision training.  
The tensorflow-addons is needed for tfa.images.  

## How to Make Your Dataset
You have image_list.json file with the format (json) as below.  
```
{
  "Asian/m.0hn95h9/000012_00@en.jpg": {
    "label": 0,
    "x1": 9,
    "y1": 13,
    "x2": 75,
    "y2": 100
  },
  "Asian/m.0hn95h9/000046_00@ja.jpg": {
    "label": 0,
    "x1": 7,
    "y1": 7,
    "x2": 43,
    "y2": 65
  },
  ...
}
```
The `key` is a relative path of a face image.   
The `value` of the key contains label number and bounding box that indicates exact face location.  
The bounding box [x1, y1, x2, y2] is [left, top, right, bottom] respectively.  
We generated the bounding box using [[11]](https://github.com/blaueck/tf-mtcnn).  

## Transform the json file into TFRECORD
Input pipeline bottleneck increases training time.  
Reading data from a large file sequentially is better than reading a lot of small sized data randomly.  
Try the command below, it generates [name].tfrecord file from the above json file.  
```
python generate_tfrecord/main.py --root_path [path] --json_file [path] --output [name]
```

## Common Settings
Execute the command `export PYTHONPATH=$(pwd)` first.  
Set 'img_root_path' arg to know where the images are located.  
Set 'train_file' arg saved with the format as mentioned above.  
Set 'num_identity' arg that is the number of face identities in the 'train_file'.  

## Recommendation Steps for Training.
1. Set 'train_classifier' to `True` and 'arc_margin_penalty' to `False`, then run `python train/main.py`.  
2. Set 'arc_margin_penalty' to `True`, then run `python train/main.py`.  

## Why Do I Have To Train With 2 Steps?
If your face dataset quality is not good, your trained model also is not good.  
It maybe good quality if your dataset has 200+ average images per identity.  
In the case which you want to train asian dataset, trillion pairs, it has 30+ average images per identity.  
So the quality of the dataset is not good, we should fine-tune a model from pretrained face embedding model.  
There are good face dataset, for example, vggface2 dataset that has 300+ average images per identity.  
Consequently you have to train with 2 steps.  
The training steps is described below.  
On top of that, small(<=2000) face identities are sufficient to get good initialization when you are training the first step.  

## Training Conditions
```
1. Train MobiletNetV3 architecture from scratch as details below:
 - L2-constrained softmax with 30 scale factor
 - ReLU6 activation (Default in this repository)
 - ADAM optimizer with 1e-4 learning rate
 - 50 epochs
 - VGGFACE2 dataset with 2K identities

2. Train the above pretrained model as details below:
 - additive angular margin loss, 0.5 margin and 60 scale factor
 - SGD momentum nesterov optimizer with 1e-3 learning rate
 - 10~15 epochs
 - trillion pairs dataset with large identities
```

## TODO LIST
Do ablation strudy for stable learning on large face identity.  

- [ ] *Known as `Center Loss`*, A Discriminative Feature Learning Approach for Deep Face Recognition, Y. Wen et al., ECCV 2016
- [x] *Known as `L2 Softmax`*, L2-constrained Softmax Loss for Discriminative Face Verification, R. Ranjan et al., arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.09507 2017
- [ ] *Known as `Proxy-NCA`*, No Fuss Distance Metric Learning using Proxies, Y. Movshovitz-Attias et al., ICCV 2017
- [ ] Correcting the Triplet Selection Bias for Triplet Loss, B. Yu et al., ECCV 2018
- [x] Global Norm-Aware Pooling for Pose-Robust Face Recognition at Low False Positive Rate, S. Chen et al., arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.00435 2018
- [ ] The Devil of Face Recognition is in the Noise, F. Wang et al., ECCV 2018
- [ ] Co-Mining: Deep Face Recognition with Noisy Labels, X. Wang et al., ICCV 2019
- [ ] SoftTriple Loss: Deep Metric Learning Without Triplet Sampling, Q. Qian et al., ICCV 2019
- [ ] *Known as `Proxy-Anchor`*, Proxy Anchor Loss for Deep Metric Learning, S. Kim et al., CVPR 2020
- [ ] Relational Deep Feature Learning for Heterogeneous Face Recognition, M. Cho et al., IEEE 2020

## References
1. [FaceNet](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1503.03832.pdf)
2. [Deep Face Recognition, VGGFACE](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/publications/2015/Parkhi15/parkhi15.pdf)
3. [RFW Face Dataset](http://www.whdeng.cn/RFW/index.html)
4. [Trillion Pairs](http://trillionpairs.deepglint.com/overview)
5. https://github.com/davidsandberg/facenet/
6. https://github.com/omoindrot/tensorflow-triplet-loss
7. https://www.wouterbulten.nl/blog/tech/data-augmentation-using-tensorflow-data-dataset
8. https://github.com/peteryuX/arcface-tf2
9. [Sharing problems I encountered training Arcface models](https://www.kaggle.com/c/recursion-cellular-image-classification/discussion/109987)
10. [Help needed: ArcFace in Keras](https://www.reddit.com/r/deeplearning/comments/cg1kev/help_needed_arcface_in_keras)
11. https://github.com/blaueck/tf-mtcnn
12. [Global Norm-Aware Pooling for Pose-Robust Face Recognition at Low False Positive Rate](https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1808/1808.00435.pdf)
